---

title: Investment Geography 
subtitle: US Investments on Maps
layout: default
modal-id: 6
date: 2018-12-01
img: world_invest.jpg
thumbnail: geography.jpg
alt: image-alt
project-date: December 2018
client: EPFL - ADA
category: Geography
description: Applying a geographic lens to the fund performance scores is important in order to grasp all the different implications of our study. 
             
---

## Introduction

Thanks to the provious substories. We were able to rank assets according to their "social good" value. All these companies 
certainly come from different states in the US and we wanted to know if certain regions of the USA have more asseets invested
in social good project. For instance one could think that innovative regions like California should have higher investments 
than states which are know for their large amount of conservative people.

**Used Dataset:** [SEC asset manager portfolios](https://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/browse-edgar?company=&CIK=&type=13F&owner=include&count=40&action=getcurrent)

## Research Question
Where are the most ethical investment assets? 
 
## Results 
<iframe width="900" height="800" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" src="//plot.ly/~dcleres/21.embed"></iframe>

First, one could easily see from the graph that some regions of the US do not have any company listed as having assets of 
sufficiently high value to be considered in our ranking (see the white state on the maps were no information pops up while
passing the mouse over the map). 
The scores of the different states are heterogeneous. There is no cleat trend to observe. 
Furthermore, one could observe that our hypothesis was wrong. The Sate of Idaho has the highest social score according to our 
criteria, followed by Indiana, Washington and Colorado. The State of California is only in the midfield of our ranking. 
The States of Texas, Missouri or Nebraska have score bellow 1.5 in our ranking. 

## Discussion 
Considering the low score of States like Texas, Missouri or Nebraska which are renown for the high influence of 
their conservative party, we can observe a certain trend that the States in the center of the US struggle more to invest 
in Social Good assets then the states on the Coast. 

## Conclusion
It is not just because a given State has many start-ups or a young population that the Companies of a given State will have
larger amount of their portfolio invested in social good. It could be interesting to compare the plot that we generated with 
the last elections in the USA in order to see if there is a trend or not. 
